LDAP 3.5 in New Template (#1850)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: ldap/3.5/modules/ROOT/pages/ldap-connector-use-studio.adoc

> = Use Studio to Configure LDAP Connector 3.5 - Mule 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Using Studio to Configure LDAP Connector 3.5 - Mule 4
```

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Dependencies to Project*, type `ldap` in the search field.
. Click *LDAP Connector* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a connector to a Mule project in Studio does not make that connector available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met. You can configure one of these sources to use with LDAP Connector:

* On Modified Objects
+
Initiates a flow when an LDAP data object is modified
+
* On New Objects
+
Initiates a flow when a new LDAP data object is created
+
* HTTP Listener
+
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
+
* Scheduler
+
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met

For example, to configure an *On Modified Objects* source, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *On Modified objects*.
. Drag *On Modified Objects* to the Studio canvas.

> . On the *On Modified Objects* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. If you want to customize the display name, change the value of the *Display Name* field.
```
Pattern I'd like to see followed for optional steps, per style ref.

> . In the *Connector configuration* field, either select an existing global element or click the plus sign (*+*) next to configure a new global element.

Reviewer 2: Is "configure a new global element" a UI label, or should this be something like:
```suggestion
. In the *Connector configuration* field, either select an existing global element or click the plus sign (*+*) to configure a new global element.
```

> . On the *General* tab, specify the principal distinguished name (DN) for the connection, authentication, and the configuration URL.

Reviewer 2: Should this be...:
```suggestion
. On the *General* tab, specify the principal distinguished name (DN) for both the connection and for authentication, and specify the configuration URL.
```

> . On the *Advanced* tab, reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. On the *Advanced* tab, specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
```

. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.

> . On the *On Modified Objects* configuration screen, specify a value for the *Base DN* field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *On Modified Objects* configuration screen, specify a value for the *Base DN* field.
```

. Click *OK*.

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add a Connector Operation to the Flow

When you add a connector operation to your flow, you are specifying an action for that connector to perform.

To add an operation for LDAP Connector, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *LDAP* and then select the desired operation.
. Drag the operation onto the Studio canvas, next to the input source.

[[configure-global-element]]
== Configure a Global Element for the Connector

When you configure a connector, configure a global element that all instances of that connector in the app can use. Configuring a global element requires you to provide the authentication credentials that the connector requires to access the target LDAP system.

To configure the global element for LDAP Connector, follow these steps:

. Select the operation in the Studio canvas.
. In the *General* configuration screen for the operation, click the *+* to access the global element configuration fields.

> . In the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the connection type, and then complete the associated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In the *General* tab, in *Connection*, select the connection type and then complete the associated
```

connection fields.
+
For information about configuring the SSL and TLS connection types, see <<ssl-connection-type,Configure an SSL Connection Type>> and <<tsl-connection-type,Configure a TLS Connection Type>>.
+
You can reference a configuration file that contains ANT-style property placeholders (recommended), or you can enter your authorization credentials in the global configuration properties. For information about the benefits of using property placeholders and how to configure them, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc[Anypoint Connector Configuration].
+
. In the *Advanced* tab, optionally specify reconnection information, including a reconnection strategy.
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the specified server.
. Click *OK*.

[[ldap-connection-type]]
=== Configure an SSL Connection Type

To configure an SSL connection type, use Anypoint Studio to set up an SSL connection in the LDAP global element:

. In the *Connection* field of the global element, select `SSL Configuration`.
. Complete the required fields.

> Connect to SLS using port.

Reviewer 2: Is this a step? Is something missing?

> Connect to SLS using port 636.

Reviewer 3: SLS -> SSL

When you set up an SSL connection type, you can set up one custom truststore. To support this scenario, the connector overrides the JVM default truststore path, which can affect other processes that depend on that truststore.

[[tls-connection-type]]
=== Configure a TLS Connection Type

To configure a TLS connection type, use Studio to set up a TLS connection in the LDAP global element:

. In the *Connection* field of the global element, select `TLS Configuration`.
. Select the *Advanced* Tab.
. In the *Extended configurations* field, select *Edit inline* and then add the `org.mule.module.ldap.trustStorePath` and `org.mule.module.ldap.trustStorePassword` key values.

> . Ensure that the native LDAP pooling functionality is turned off. For example if using JNDI, do not use attributes such as `com.sun.jndi.ldap.connect.pool=true`, which cause problems when using TLS.

Reviewer 2: Is the example necessary? Makes the step long.

> . Ensure that the native LDAP pooling functionality is turned off. For example if using JNDI, do not use attributes such as `com.sun.jndi.ldap.connect.pool=true`, which cause problems when using TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure that the native LDAP pooling functionality is turned off. For example if using JNDI, do not use attributes such as `com.sun.jndi.ldap.connect.pool=true`, which causes problems when using TLS.
```

> Connect to TLS using port 389. Use `ldap` instead of of `ldaps` in the associated URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Connect to TLS using port 389, using `ldap` instead of of `ldaps` in the associated URL.
```

> Connect to TLS using port 389, using `ldap` instead of of `ldaps` in the associated URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to TLS using port 389, using `ldap` instead of `ldaps` in the associated URL.
```

> For an example of configuring a TLS connection, see xref:ldap-connector-examples.adoc#set-up-common-truststore[Set up a Common Truststore].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an example of configuring a TLS connection, see xref:ldap-connector-examples.adoc#set-up-common-truststore[Set Up a Common Truststore].
```

[[configure-other-fields]]
== Configure Additional Connector Fields

> After you configure a global element for LDAP Connector, configure the the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you configure a global element for LDAP Connector, configure the other required fields for the connector. The required fields vary depending on which connector operation you use.
```
